Navigating this site
=====

What is the information displayed on the Explore page?
------------
The Explore page on the PDC website offers a comprehensive overview of all available data and various ways to explore the cohorts across PDC. The information is organized into three main panels:

Graphic Panel
The graphic panel visually represents data organized into analytical fractions, disease types, and experimental types. This provides a quick and intuitive overview of the data distribution and key categories.

Data Panel
The data panel is divided into several tabs, each displaying data organized by studies, and detailing clinical, biospecimen, and file properties.

Studies Tab: Lists all studies along with summary statistics for various attributes, such as the number of cases and files in each data category. Clicking on a specific number filters the data accordingly and takes you to the appropriate tab. Selecting a study by its identifier or name opens a detailed study summary overlay.
Clinical Tab: Displays a list of cases (participants, subjects, donors, patients, etc.) across the PDC, along with their clinical information.
Biospecimens Tab: Lists aliquots derived from case samples analyzed in proteomic experiments across PDC, along with their sample properties.
Files Tab: Provides a list of files across PDC, along with their associated metadata.
Genes Tab: Provides a list of genes expressed across PDC, along with their associated metadata.
Filter Panel
Located on the left side, the filter panel allows users to refine the data based on harmonized metadata. The filters are organized into distinct groups:

General
Biospecimen
Clinical
Files
Genes
Study
Applying filters updates the data displayed in both the Graphic and Data panels.

Downloading Manifest and Data
Due to the extensive data available on PDC, multiple manifests can be downloaded from the Explore page:

Manifest Downloads
Each tab under the Data Panel allows for the download of relevant manifests, which export the displayed information as TSV or CSV files. Available manifests include:

Study Manifest
Clinical Manifest
Biospecimen Manifest
File Manifest
Gene manifest
Data Downloads
To download data files, you may download each file directly from the Files tab on the Data Panel by clicking the download button or by using the file manifest to download multiple files at once. Refer to the ‘Data Download’ section for more details.

What is the information displayed on the Study Summary page?
------------
The Study Summary page on the PDC website provides a comprehensive overview of study information, helping users understand the data before downloading. Here's how you can access a Study Summary page and the features it includes:

Accessing the Study Summary Page
From the Study Tab on the Explore Page: Click on the study identifier or name.
Direct URL: If you know the study identifier (e.g., PDC Study ID), you can directly access the page by appending it to the following URL: https://pdc.cancer.gov/pdc/study/<PDC Study ID>
Example: https://pdc.cancer.gov/pdc/study/PDC000544

Information on the Study Summary Page
The Study Summary page includes several sections, each providing specific information about the study:

Summary Panel:
Displays general properties of the study such as the name, program, experimental type, Disease Types, Project ID, and more.

Overview panel:
Study Description Tab: Provides a description of the study, usually the abstract from the associated publication.
Protocol Tab: Provides a description of the analytical sample preparation, chromatography and mass spectrometry parameters used to generate the data
Clinical Tab: Lists cases (participants, subjects, donors, patients, etc.) across the PDC, along with their clinical information.
Biospecimen Tab: Lists aliquots derived from case samples analyzed in proteomic experiments across PDC, along with their sample properties.
Experimental Design Tab: Displays a dataframe that describes the relationship between samples and files. It allows easy visualization of sample types (tumor, normal, etc.) used in the experiment and how they are tagged with isobaric reagents in labeled experiments.
Workflow Metadata Tab: Provides details of the various tools, databases, and parameters used in the PDC Common Data Analysis Pipeline.
Data Use Agreement Tab: Displays PDC data use guidelines.
Available Data Panels
The available data for download is organized into two sections:

Left Section: Contains the raw data from data submitters and the processed data generated by the PDC harmonization process, including the common data analysis pipeline.
Right Section: Includes additional data provided by the data submitters.
Related PDC Studies Panel
Lists all other studies within PDC related to the current study. These are usually additional characterizations of the same cohort, such as proteome and other post-translational modification (PTM) studies like phosphoproteome and ubiquitylome.

External References
Lists other resources where complementary data for the same cohort is available.

Publications Section
Provides the citation of the primary publication associated with the study.

Heatmap Visualization Section
Features a heatmap thumbnail that links to a Morpheus heatmaps visualization page. This page includes quantitative data generated from the PDC common data analysis pipeline, annotated with extensive clinical information, and loaded into a Morpheus heatmaps viewer.

What is the information displayed on PDC Case Summary page?
------------
Information for Case Summary page.
